'''HP - Shadow Labs - Urgent Hiring Need - We will relocate the right Application Senior Security Consultants (Pen Tester/Hacker) from most US cites to Houston!'''

ShadowLabs a NEW Security Service within HP's ESP (Enterprise Security Group) is Hiring Applications Senior Security Consultants and Mobile Security Testers.  ShadowLabs is a professional services group that specializes in security testing of all types, including web application assessment, mobile application assessment, penetration testing, physical access testing, social engineering, and other ethical hacking services.



*   In this role you will work for HP at the Houston based Clients location

*   Our typical Security Consultant position is a work from home situation with 25% travel; however, this Houston position is the exception.

*   The new "ESP" Enterprise Security Products Group is building something really special



'''Position Overview:'''

Shadow Labs - The Navy Seals for Application Security Pen Testing is Hiring


*   Houston Location - We will relocate the right US based candidate.

*   This is an Application Pen Testing position NOT a Network Pen Testing position

*   You will receive an Extensive Home Lab and training

*   Full mobile hardware, I-Pad,  I-phone,  Mac Book,  Laptop,  Work station,  and Android----in all  7 pieces of hardware, plus training extensive training material

*   Two conferences each year (DEFCON and one conference of your choice - US only)



'''Qualification Questions:'''



*   Are you passionate about Application Security  (When App Sec is not just a part of your job - it's your hobby and you have an awesome home lab)?

*   Have you broken web apps before?

*   Have you wondered why people struggle with "web 2.0" and AJAX sites?

*   Do you know the OWASP Top 10 by heart (and if you had to could you test them with only an interception proxy)?

*   Do you have experience with Application Security products from HP/SPI Dynamics or IBM/Watchfire  or Burp

*   Can travel up to 25%




'''Job Description'''

You won't be alone; we have a strong team from all over the industry and have access to other groups under the HP Umbrella (Fortify, Arcsight, TippingPoint/DVLabs, Webinspect Devs, etc). Shadowlabs is looking for security consultants that have strong fundamentals and the passion and ability to apply them.

If interested in applying for this position, please contact David Nester at david.nester@hp.com mailto:david.nester@hp.com