'''Senior Web Developer'''

Senior Web Developer with experience in Java 5, Struts 1.x, database
design (My SQL and RBDMS) and Secure software development skills.  Other
technologies include Java Hibernate, HQL, IText/Fusion Charts,
XHTML/CSS, JQuery and Javascript.  While position's primary focus is
internal development, there is the potential for learning application
security, providing consultative support to end customers and client
training.  

 
Minimum Required Skills:
Java, J2EE, JEE, JSP, Struts, Struts 1.3.x, Hibernate, HTML, CSS, Tiles,
Javascript, Ajax, jQuery, MySQL, Senior Software Engineer, Senior Java
Engineer, Software Developer, Senior Developer, Java Developer, Java
Engineer, J2EE Developer, J2EE Engineer, J2EE Programmer, Java
Programmer, Software Programmer, Sr. J2EE Programmer, Web Developer, Sr.
Engineer, Sr. Web Developer, Team Lead

If you are a Senior Java Engineer or Senior Java Developer, please read
on...

'''What you need:'''

- Java / J2ee / JEE
- HTML, DHTML, CSS, Tiles, JavaScript and the JQuery library.

- Experience with iText and Fusion charts

- Cross-browser technologies and HTML validation

- Web development across the entire web application stack from the
server to the interface using Java.

- Hibernate with MySQL

- Secure web application coding skills desired (OWASP)

- Content Management or related experience desired

'''What you will be doing:'''

- Translate business requirements into technical designs and software.

- Enhance the technical design, architecture and frameworks of the
product suite.

- Document architecture and technical design.

So if you are a Senior Java Software Engineer or Principle Java
Programmer who can shape our web design standards and create 3-tier web
applications for bleeding-edge products - please apply today!

Must be authorized to work in the United States on a full-time basis for
any employer.

Qualified candidates should submit their resume to [mailto:andi.mcdowell@aspectsecurity.com Andi McDowell]