At Boeing, we aspire to be the strongest, best and best-integrated aerospace company in the world - today and tomorrow. When you join our team, your passion for computing, engineering or business can soar. That's because you'll work with others who share your dreams and your expertise. Whether you're developing navigation systems for a next-generation satellite, configuring new flight surfaces for a passenger jet, improving the workflow on a plant floor or facilitating a billion-dollar order of new 787s, you'll have the opportunity to take your career around the world.

'''Cyber Security Assessment Specialist 3/4

Annapolis Junction, MD'''

Leads and conducts vulnerability assessments and penetration testing of target systems and environments for multiple and undefined interfaces. Performs assessment planning. Analyzes architecture and system functionality for a broad range of technologies. Evaluates system security configurations. Performs exploit analysis and authors exploitation tools/techniques. Evaluates findings and conducts root cause analysis. Reviews or prepares and presents technical reports and briefings. Leads customer remediation reviews. May specialize in a technology or testing approach.

The ideal candidate will possess strong technical skills across Information Systems including experience assessing web and database technologies using both manual and automated techniques, conducting application source code reviews, and evaluating secured middleware services, as required. The successful candidate must clearly communicate discovered security threats and vulnerabilities to a wide and diverse audience ranging from application developers and system administrators to all levels of executive management. The successful candidate will have, or be able to obtain a security clearance and appropriate professional certifications such as CISSP, CEH, GIAC, be proficient in Information Security tools (including web proxies, scanners, sniffers, and fuzzers) and manual testing techniques to exploit vulnerabilities in the OWASP top 10, and must have a broad range of skills in Information Systems and Information Security that range from web servers and services to transport layer protocols. Competency in scripting or programming skills in languages that relate to application and system penetration testing such as: JavaScript, PERL, Python, C, C++,C#, .NET and/or Java programming knowledge is required.

'''Competencies:''' 

Continuous Learning

Innovation

Cyber Sys Threat & Environment

Emerging Computing Technology

Penetration Testing

Vulnerability Assessments

'''Basic Qualifications for Consideration:'''

Do you have experience performing manual testing for every vulnerability in the OWASP Top 10?

'''Typical Education/Experience:'''

Level 3 - Technical bachelor's degree and typically 5 or more years' related work experience or a Master's degree with typically 3 or more years' or a PhD degree or an equivalent combination of education and experience. A technical degree is defined as any four year degree, or greater, in a mathematic, scientific or information technology field of study. Level 4 - Technical bachelor's degree and typically 9 or more years' related work experience or a Master's degree with typically 7 or more years' or a PhD degree with typically 4 or more years' related work experience or an equivalent combination of education and experience. A technical degree is defined as any four year degree, or greater, in a mathematic, scientific or information technology field of study.

'''Other Job Related Information:'''

The willingness and ability to obtain a Secret security clearance. US citizenship required.

Requisition #11-1024700

Boeing is an equal opportunity employer supporting diversity in the workplace.

Link: https://jobs.boeing.com/JobSeeker/JobView?reqcode=11-1024700