University Information Technology (UIT) is a university-wide service organization dedicated to the strategic planning, implementation, and support of technology systems and services that anticipate and meet the academic, research, and business needs of the Tufts community. UIT offers technical leadership and services to our customers with a focus on providing innovative solutions, delivering exceptional customer service, and creating a reliable infrastructure that demonstrates value to the students, faculty, staff, and alumni of Tufts University. UIT works in partnership with schools, business units, and other academic support organizations to provide campus-wide services in the areas of academic and research technology, enterprise application systems and services, networking and telecommunications, information security, data center operations, and user support, training and outreach.

The Information Security Operations Team Lead works with the security team, partners and clients to prevent, detect, respond and recover from security incidents. Primary responsibilities include working with others to develop, operate and maintain a distributed security operations and incident response team providing infrastructure and application monitoring, tools and support services to the Tufts University community. Other responsibilities include developing and maintaining efficient, cost-effective processes and software automation tools to manage the operational workload.

Additional responsibilities include providing highly technical security consulting and outreach services to clients. Services include digital forensics and developing and deploying production IT tools for community use with supporting documentation and related operational processes. This is a hands-on technical and supervisory role reporting to the Chief Information Security Officer. As the position evolves, responsibility for the supervision of part-time student workers as well as the management of external consultants and their projects is anticipated, including providing operational and status updates to management. The ideal candidate will be self motivated, a solid team player, highly technical and require minimal ongoing supervision.

'''Job Requirements'''

'''Basic Requirements:'''

•	Bachelor's degree OR High School diploma and three (3) years of directly applicable information security experience 

•	Minimum of two years of experience in a leadership role with security monitoring, analysis, software development or support experience within a team environment and progressively increasing responsibility for developing self and others as a team 

•	Highly advanced PC / Mac / Unix and related application experience, including the ability to effectively use Microsoft Office, Visio and Project, and three to five (3-5) years of significant demonstrable experience with web development and various modern scripting and software development languages, including debugging tools, relational databases, and related programming environments and processes 

•	Excellent written and verbal command of the English language, strong interpersonal communications, motivational and teambuilding skills, the ability to relay technical concepts to non-technical audiences in a business context, the ability to work effectively both independently and in team environments, and the ability to effectively respond to last minute service requests 

•	The successful candidate selected for the position must pass a CORI (Criminal Offender Record Information) background check 

'''Preferred Qualifications:'''

Previous experience with consulting, application security, user support, custom development, database and report generation, information security coursework, training (SANS, etc.), certifications (CISSP, etc.), and digital forensic experience (acquisition and analysis) would be helpful.

Hands-on administration of systems including web servers, application servers, database systems, middleware and core infrastructure devices (IP Address Management, WAN, LAN, and SAN/NAS devices such as routers, switches, firewalls, VPN and IDS/IPS) is also desirable. Experience with vulnerability assessment tools and methodologies, digital certificates, encryption products and data sanitization software are also a plus.

Familiarity and experience with an academic environment, including compliance issues, access control reviews, IT processes and applications (ArcSight, Oracle, PeopleSoft, LANDesk, etc.) is a distinct advantage. If direct professional experience is substituted for a degree, some college work and a commitment to obtain a four-year university degree is strongly preferred.

'''Special Work Schedule Requirements:''' Occasional work on weekends and after hours is required, as needed.

Tufts University is an AA/EO employer and actively seeks candidates from diverse backgrounds. 

'''Apply Here''': http://www.click2apply.net/jcc4km6