'''Lead STAT Analyst''' 

Automatic Data Processing, Inc. (Nasdaq: ADP), with about $10 billion in revenues and about 570,000 clients, is one of the world's largest providers of business outsourcing solutions. Leveraging over 60 years of experience, ADP offers a wide range of human resource, payroll, tax and benefits administration solutions from a single source. ADP's easy-to-use solutions for employers provide superior value to companies of all types and sizes. ADP is also a leading provider of integrated computing solutions to auto, truck, motorcycle, marine, recreational vehicle, heavy manufacturing, and agricultural vehicle dealers throughout the world. 

Fortune World’s Most Admired Companies – ADP ranked #1 in Financial Data Services Industry (2010)

Working Mother magazine’s 100 Best Companies for Working Mothers (2009)

Training magazine ranked ADP 2nd on the “Training Top 125” list (2010)

An ADP Lead STAT Security Analyst assesses the security of ADP's systems and applications at multiple layers, including Application, Operating System and Network.   The ideal candidate will be familiar with both static and dynamic techniques, including source code review and penetration testing.  As a matter of practicality most Analysts will specialize in either static or dynamic analysis. Security Analysts work closely with team members, development teams, business representatives, risk analysts, and other related security areas as necessary. Security Analysts often take full responsibility for delivering projects by themselves, but also must be able to collaborate with larger teams as necessary. This candidate will primarily be focused on ensuring that security is built into the Software Development Life Cycle to ensure the delivery of trusted products and services to our clients, partners, and ADP associates. These responsibilities will be fulfilled by performing static code analysis, developing and providing secure source code training and consultation services, and assisting with self service tools to the development communities. This position will also work within a diverse and geographically disperse team, as well as, act as a coach and mentor for developing the skill sets of junior team members.

'''Education & Experience:''' 

•	Master’s Degree Computer Science or equivalent in education & experience

•	Extensive hands-on experience in Visual .Net and/or Java based web application development.

•	Any of the following are a plus: CEH, CISSP, CSSLP, GCIA, GPEN, GWAPT, Fortify Certified Associate / Professional / Expert.

•	Exposure to Web application security issues and OWASP knowledge. 

•	Candidate should be very thorough in internet technologies and highly versed with web development best practices.

ADP is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer; M/F/D/V. ADP believes that diversity leads to strength.

To apply for this position, please follow the below steps

1.	Click here http://www.adp-jobs.com/content/search-content-page/?utm_source=SourcingOther

2.	When prompted, enter requisition number  CRPS42347

3.	Click on the Job Title hyperlink

4.	Click Apply Now