Cigital is headquartered in Dulles, Virginia, just minutes outside of Washington, D.C., in one of the country’s leading technology corridors. In addition to our great corporate culture, Cigital offers an excellent salary and benefits package. If you are committed to excellence and want to grow your career, apply today!

'''Sales Engineer'''

To apply for this position - http://www.cigital.com/careers/jobs/?job=sales-engineer.

'''Position Location:''' Dulles, VA or New York, NY

'''Position Type:''' Full-time

'''Reports to:''' VP, Products

Cigital is looking for a full-time Sales Engineer for its Products Division based in either the Dulles VA or New York City area.

'''About Cigital'''

Cigital, Inc. is the leading software security and quality consulting firm. Established in 1992, Cigital plans and implements initiatives to help ensure customers have secure, reliable applications. We improve how they build and deploy software, and we have fun doing it. The daily news gives you a taste of what companies face, but if you’re in our field you get to see how serious these problems really are. Whether they’re banks, TV networks, or game designers – when businesses get serious about software security, they call Cigital. 

'''General Responsibilities'''

Cigital is looking for a Sales Engineer in software security with experience in training and tools. The Sales Engineer is the primary technical resource for the sales team as well as a resource for product feedback to Cigital’s marketing, product management and engineering teams.
The successful candidate will be responsible for building technical understanding and credibility during the sales process to ensure success of Cigital’s solutions. As an integral part of a product team, the Sales Engineer works closely with sales to pursue leads, demonstrate product capability, inspire confidence and effectively communicate the use cases and benefits of Cigital’s product and training solutions.

'''Roles'''

1.	Partner with Sales and Principal/Managing Consultants to identify and pursue new business opportunities and support all aspects and phases of the sales process, including:

o	Demonstrate products to prospects, customers and partners

o	Respond to technical questions and create competitive differentiation

o	Respond promptly to customer requests and proposals

o	Establish appropriate presence of Professional Services as a critical component of Cigital’s offerings

o	Build and maintain customer, prospect and partner relationships, in particular with technical managers and influencers

o	Manage all aspects of customer evaluations including installation, training and working with Technical Support and Engineering to ensure issues are resolved in a timely manner

2.	Ensure a smooth and successful transition (externally and internally) from sales process to product and service delivery

3.	Provide post-sales support to customers and sales to ensure customer satisfaction

4.	Provide product feature input to product management

5.	30% domestic travel

'''Qualifications'''

•	5+years of experience as a Sales Engineer selling into the F1000.

•	Knowledge of secure software testing, lifecycle methodologies or assessments

•	Effective written and verbal communication skills

•	Proficient with MS Office applications – Word, Powerpoint and Excel

•	Hands-on software demonstration experience

•	Strong team player who’s willing to work hard while having a lot of fun

•	Solid understanding of professional services to enable software products

•	Excellent technical and business skills, including project management knowledge

•	Excellent attitude and a self-starter who takes strong accountability for personal results

•	BS/BA in an engineering discipline, or equivalent

•	Industry certifications such as CISSP a plus

'''Compensation & Work Location'''

Cigital is based in Dulles, Virginia, with offices in New York, San Francisco, London, Amsterdam, and clients worldwide. We offer a competitive salary, equity compensation, and benefits.