'''Title- Senior Application Security Consultant'''

Accuvant LABS is a multi-disciplined consulting team with focus areas on network penetration, malware analysis, vulnerability research, hardware testing, operating system, mobile device, and application testing.  The Application Security group focuses on mobile and web application testing, and generally anything in Java, .Net, PHP, RoR or Web/Mobile frameworks.  Our Research Consulting team focuses on C/C++ applications, device firmware, operating systems security, and mobile hardware platforms. The Enterprise group is based on advanced network penetration and internal assessments, while the Malware and Research Scientist team focus on exploitation analysis and development of new threat classes.

 

We are also hiring Senior and Principal-level Application Security Consultants which is determined by your experience and prior accomplishments.  We expect a senior-level individual to have at least four years in a directly related role, and principal consultants must more than six years in application security consulting with an excellent record of career achievement.  Currently we are looking for AppSec Consultants in specific locales, primarily in Chicago and the SF Bay Area, but given as the majority of work is remote we would like to talk to you regardless of where you call home.  LABS maintains an international client base which allows us to locate consultants across the country and around the globe. However, if you would be willing to relocate to one of our preferred US locales we do offer relocation assistance.

 

'''Benefits:'''

Full Medical and Dental, with a 401k

Relocation Assistance

Internet and cell phone reimbursement

Training budget for anything from academic courses to conference classes

Incentive comp for research projects

15 days of PTO/yr (20 days after 4 years)

 

'''Travel:'''

We quote out "up to 20%", but this really depends on where you live.  If it's rural, I would expect to be on a plane once in a while; if you live in a major metropolitan area we can usually keep you within driving distance of your clients.  

 

'''Salary:'''

Better than industry averages, based on experience and talent. Salary is paid out on the 1st and 15th of every month. Talent is well compensated.

 

'''Bonus:'''

We pay out bonus to the consultants based on billable revenue, which means you get a percentage of every engagement you bill hours on. Bonuses are paid out quarterly.

 

'''Office Life:'''

While Accuvant does have 30+ offices we don't require the LABS consultants to ever visit them.  Most of the team works from home or with some of their local coworkers on larger projects.  If you want to come into the office every day this job may not be the best fit.  We tend to hire experienced workers that have the ability to manage their time without constant supervision.  We don't offer internships currently, but are planning a formal program for 2012.

Lisa

Lisa Green

Talent Acquisition Specialist

Office:  410.855.8850| Fax: 443.451.8639 |Mobile: 410-493-2465 lgreen@accuvant.com 

www.accuvant.com
 

Accuvant is an Equal Opportunity Employer and participates in E-Verify.

**Accuvant does not actively solicit from partners and/or clients.**