'''YM Chen'''

Yen-Ming joined Foundstone as a consultant in 2000 and is now a Director. In client engagements, Yen-Ming helps clients align their security strategies with their business goals. Yen-Ming established the first Foundstone Asian Pacific office in Singapore. He has been instrumental in developing and growing new markets like China, Hong Kong, Singapore, Indonesia, and Saudi Arabia. He has also managed regional distributors and resellers of the Foundstone vulnerability scanner and helped them increase regional sales revenues. In addition, he served as a Lead Instructor for Foundstone’s Ultimate Hacking, Ultimate Hacking Expert, Ultimate Web Hacking and Ultimate Hacking: Incident Response classes.

Prior to joining Foundstone, Yen-Ming worked in the CyberSecurity Center at Carnegie Mellon University. He created the prototype for an intrusion detection system appliance and wrote the first intrusion detection log correlation and analysis program, snort-stat for Snort.

Yen-Ming is a published author and sought-after speaker in both North America and the Pacific Rim. His articles have been published by SecurityFocus, SysAdmin, UnixReview, DevX, PCWeek, CNET Taiwan, ITHome, and other technology magazines in both North America and Asia Pacific. Yen-Ming has been interviewed by BBC and other media across the globe, and he has been a featured presenter at conferences, including PACSEC.JP, HITB, HACK.LU, HIT, CSI, MISTI, APAC Regional Conference on Electronic Safety and Soundness for Financial Services, Hong Kong CERT, and ICST conferences. Yen-Ming has contributed to several books, including: Hacking Exposed, 3rd ed., Hacking Exposed for Web Applications, Windows XP Professional Security, and HackNotes: Web Application Security.

Yen-Ming is currently a professional member of ACM and he previous held Certified Information Systems Security Professional (2001-2004) and Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer. Yen-Ming holds a BS in mathematics from National Central University in Taiwan, and an MS in information networking from Carnegie Mellon University.