'''Donate via Visa or PayPal'''

Individuals and companies can donate funds to support the OWASP and its projects.

==Donate using Paypal==
 <paypal>Contribute to OWASP</paypal>


'''Donate via Check'''

You can also donate by sending a check or money order, payable to "The OWASP Foundation", directly to our Treasurer (donations only, please) at:

  '''The OWASP Foundation
  9175 Guilford Road, Suite 300
  Columbia, MD 21046 USA'''

Please include the name under which you wish the donation to be credited, either your own or the third-party if it is a gift on behalf of someone else, and an e-mail address to which we can acknowledge receipt. This information will not be used for any other purpose. We will send a physical receipt by normal mail for any donations of US$100 or more, provided you include a return address.


'''Frequently Asked Questions about Contributing to The OWASP Foundation'''

'''Why should I donate?'''

As a volunteer-based organization, the OWASP Foundation stands in need of dedicated volunteers who can work on software, documentation, or administrative issues within each of the OWASP projects. OWASP provides the infrastructure for the projects - the mailing lists, code repositories, bug tracking systems, etc. While all of the administrative effort is currently through unpaid volunteers, we need financial assistance to purchase bandwidth and keep our servers running.

'''Is there a cost to participate?'''

Absolutely not! The OWASP Foundation is committed to providing free access to all interested participants. All of our code is distributed under the OSI-approved licenses. The project mailing lists are all open to the public and participation is encouraged. So, there is no cost required to contribute to the projects. However, there is usually a substantial time committment that is required in order to contribute to a project.

'''Create a new project'''

The OWASP Foundation is also looking for new or existing documentation or software projects related to application security that are in need of a home. If you are in a position to contribute documentation that could help other organizations, or software you have developed, we may be able to provide a home for it. Understand that this would mean assigning the OWASP Foundation rights to modify and distribute your work and offer it under a FLOSS license. See the Contributor Licensing Agreement for more details. Please contact owasp@owasp.org for more details about starting new projects in the OWASP.

'''If I donate financially, where would my donations go?'''

If you'd like to contribute financially to the foundation, we would greatly appreciate it. Currently, the bulk of our financial obligations are going towards providing our technical infrastructure - the servers and bandwidth that we require. The foundation also provides legal support for our projects, therefore, it is often required to obtain qualified legal counsel about issues that arise. If you have a specific target or project that you wish to directly support, please contact us and we will do our best to satisfy your wishes. If you wish to provide equipment for use by the Foundation, please contact us before attempting to send it "here" directly.

'''The OWASP Foundation is a non-profit organization'''

The OWASP Foundation is a private operating foundation that is registered as a non-profit, charitable organization under Section 501(c)(3) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. This means that, for individuals within the U.S., donations to the OWASP should be tax-deductible. We are not accountants, so this cannot be trusted as financial advice of any kind, but hopefully this description will be useful to those who advise you in these matters.

'''I'd like to talk to someone about supporting the OWASP!'''

If you would like more information about supporting the OWASP, please [http://sl.owasp.org/contactus contact us] for more information. All information will be kept in strictest confidence.


[[About_OWASP]]