Cigital is headquartered in Dulles, Virginia, just minutes outside of Washington, D.C., in one of the country’s leading technology corridors. In addition to our great corporate culture, Cigital offers an excellent salary and benefits package. If you are committed to excellence and want to grow your career, apply today!

'''Senior Security Consultant (Smart Grid)'''

To apply for this position, http://www.cigital.com/careers/jobs/?job=sr-security-consultant-smart-grid

'''Position Location:''' Dulles, Virginia

'''Position Type:''' Full-time

'''Reports to:''' Managing Consultant

Cigital is looking for a full-time or contract Senior Security Consultant based at our headquarters in Dulles, Virginia – to parachute in wherever software insecurity invades, and to stomp out bugs and flaws wherever they hide.

'''About Cigital'''

Cigital, Inc. is the leading software security and quality consulting firm. Established in 1992, Cigital plans and implements initiatives to help ensure customers have secure, reliable applications. We improve how they build and deploy software, and we have fun doing it. The daily news gives you a taste of what companies face, but if you’re in our field you get to see how serious these problems really are. Whether they’re banks, TV networks, or game designers – when businesses get serious about software security, they call Cigital. 
General Responsibilities
As Cigital engages with clients in the application of our software security improvement methodologies, the Senior Security Consultant leads in the execution and delivery of planned project deliverables and milestones that assist clients in learning, understanding, and applying Cigital’s secure software development methodologies. The Consultant typically has task responsibility within multiple projects and develops the capability to perform tasks within one or more of Cigital’s security practices. The Senior Consultant continuously learns and expands his/her technical competence. Consultants do some work from our headquarters, but often go on site to help customers exterminate the bugs and untangle the flaws that make their systems insecure. Our consultants make themselves and their team indispensable advisors to our customers: they build the relationships that help create and identify follow-on assignments.
In addition, an ideal candidate will have experience in the electric power industry working with common applications such as Advanced Metering Infrastructure (AMI), Meter Data Management (MDM), Demand Management Systems (DM), SCADA, and others. Hands-on experience in testing and verifying the security of these applications, along with other SmartGrid components and systems, is particularly valuable. Experience interacting with internal IT and Operations security teams is also very useful.

'''Qualifications'''

'''•	Technical skills'''

o	Familiarity with software security weakness, vulnerability and secure code review a plus

o	Familiarity with software attack and exploitation techniques a plus

o	Familiarity with at least one software programming language and framework a plus

'''•	Consulting skills'''

o	Ability to interface with clients, utilizing consulting and negotiating skills

o	Ability to undertake and complete tasks independently, meet schedules and delivery timelines, 
and to move swiftly from concepts and theory to action.

'''•	Team-oriented skills'''

o	Ability to lead multiple project teams; give directions and ensure that tasks are executed 
consistently

'''•	Project Management skills'''

o	People: You can lead a team, give direction and ensure tasks are executed consistently.

o	Projects: You can demonstrate the ability to plan, execute and closeout multi-person projects

'''•	Communication'''

o	Written communication skills for use in preparing formal documentation, Statements of Work, proposals, white papers, and case studies

o	Verbal skills that include the ability to clearly articulate thoughts, be persuasive and to deliver presentation and training to all levels of management

'''•	Demeanor'''

o	You are enthusiastic and committed to your work. You do this because you love it.

o	You’ve got an entrepreneurial drive and want to help grow this business.

o	Willingness to travel 20-50%

'''•	Clearances'''

o	Possession or ability to receive DOD Secret or higher clearance a plus

o	US or Canadian Citizenship a plus

'''Education and Experience'''

•	BS in CS, Engineering or equivalent. MS preferred.

•	Experience with C/C++, ASP.NET, Java, J2EE, multiple RDBMS

•	Experience with other languages (e.g. JavaScript, Python, Ruby, PHP, Perl, COBOL, SQL, or Assembly) (Desired)

•	Experience in with multiple OS such as Linux, Mac OSX, iOS, Blackberry, Android, or Windows (desired)

•	Consulting experience highly desired

'''Compensation & Work Location'''

Cigital is based in Dulles, Virginia, with offices in New York, San Francisco, London, Amsterdam, and clients worldwide. We offer a competitive salary, equity compensation, and benefits.